## Default Values

Two major philosophies guide the OpenStack-Helm values approach.  It is important that new chart developers understand the `values.yaml` approach OpenStack-Helm has within each of its charts to ensure that all charts are both consistent and remain a joy to work with.

The first philosophy to understand is that all charts should be independently installable and should not require a parent chart. This means that the values file in each chart should be self-contained.  The project avoids using Helm globals and parent charts as requirements for capturing and feeding environment specific overrides into subcharts.  An example of a single site definition YAML that can be source controlled and used as `--values` input to all OpenStack-Helm charts to maintain overrides in one testable place is forthcoming.  Currently Helm does not support a `--values=environment.yaml` chunking up a larger override file's YAML namespace.  Ideally, the project seeks native Helm support for `helm install local/keystone --values=environment.yaml:keystone` where `environment.yaml` is the operator's chart-wide environment definition and `keystone` is the section in environment.yaml that will be fed to the keystone chart during install as overrides.  Standard YAML anchors can be used to duplicate common elements like the `endpoints` sections.  At the time of writing, operators can use a temporary approach like [values.py](https://github.com/att-comdev/openstack-helm/blob/master/helm-toolkit/utils/values/values.py) to chunk up a single override YAML file as input to various individual charts.  Overrides, just like the templates themselves, should be source controlled and tested, especially for operators operating charts at scale.  This project will continue to examine efforts such as [helm-value-store](https://github.com/skuid/helm-value-store) and solutions in the vein of [helmfile](https://github.com/roboll/helmfile).  Another compelling project that seems to address the needs of orchestrating multiple charts and managing site specific overrides is [Landscape](https://github.com/Eneco/landscaper)

The second philosophy is that the values files should be consistent across all charts, including charts in core, infra, and add-ons.  This provides a consistent way for operators to override settings, such as enabling developer mode, defining resource limitations, and customizing the actual OpenStack configuration within chart templates without having to guess how a particular chart developer has laid out their values.yaml. There are also various macros in the `helm-toolkit` chart that will depend on the `values.yaml` within all charts being structured a certain way.

Finally, where charts reference connectivity information for other services sane defaults should be provided.  In cases where these services are provided by OpenStack-Helm itself, the defaults should assume that the user will use the OpenStack-Helm charts for those services, but should also allow those charts to be overridden if the operator has them externally deployed.
